I deleted my Tick Tock account with over
300 000 followers but the purpose of
today's episode is to talk about why I
decided to delete my Tick Tock account
despite having over 300 000 followers
I'm gonna be sharing some advice for you
as to when you should start over and
even if you're not necessarily on Tick
Tock a lot of the tips I'm going to
share today can be applied to other
platforms like YouTube or Instagram when
you are considering hey should I start
fresh and start a new account or should
I keep trudging along with the current
account that I'm on and I'm also going
to be sharing some tips with you if you
are considering restarting account what
should you know before you do that what
should the actual steps and Order of
events be once you do decide to pull the
trigger and start the new account
hey there what's up and welcome to
today's episode of build your tribe
where I am recording for you in my new
home office this is a work in progress
we literally moved in just three days
ago and so you can tell like my cord
management system isn't really managing
very much at all right now and I'm still
kind of working through all the Kinks
with this new office but I thought it
was more important to be vulnerable and
to be authentic to just show you what it
looks like right now which I actually
think it looks pretty good all things
considered I'll make sure over the next
few weeks as I kind of build out this
office a little bit more I'll include
some videos and some tours of the office
and of some of the equipment that I've
decided to invest in because now that my
wife and I own our own home I'm taking
my office a lot more seriously I'm being
really thoughtful about the design of it
and I really want to take my gadgets up
to the next level I want to improve my
ability to record these podcasts I want
to improve my overall video quality I
want to improve my streaming setup for
when we do like live trainings and so
I'm going to be documenting all of this
so that you can kind of stay abreast
with all the changes and so that you can
learn and possibly take some of these
ideas for yourself as inspiration or
even buy some of the same gadgets that
I'm investing in but also I want you to
realize that everything I've been doing
for the last five years has been without
a professional office setup in fact I
just got a second month monitor for the
first time yesterday for the past five
years I've been working exclusively off
of my laptop some of you know that about
a year ago I added this professional
microphone but before that I was on a 50
USB microphone the yeti blue microphone
so this just goes to say that there
should be no excuses when it comes to
creating content you don't need
thousands of dollars worth of fancy
professional equipment you can get by
with some natural sunlight and a 20 mic
off of Amazon but let's start with a
little bit of backstory my Tick Tock
profile blew up in 2019 in fact it was
like January or February of 2019 the
very beginning of the earliest stages of
tick tock I was kind of like an OG
influencer over on Tick Tock I wouldn't
quite call myself that level but it was
pretty close and a lot of the OG
influencers who you might think of when
you think of like the original popular
crowd on Tick Tock a lot of those people
have kind of become friends or Mutual
followers because I blew up at that
stage this was a stage before Tick Tock
itself had even blown up it was very new
to the US market and it hadn't received
the huge spike in growth that it started
seeing at the beginning of the pandemic
in 2020 but 2019 very beginning of 2019
I blew up on Tick Tock because I posted
a bunch of silly dancing videos but
basically these were just fun videos in
the locker room oftentimes wearing my
football pads or my football clothes and
it was kind of funny you know to see a
guy a college athlete big beard you know
masculine environment but recording
these silly dancing videos and so
multiple of them went Mega viral like
we're talking over 10 million views on
one of the videos multiple videos in a
row that went over a million and so I
went from zero followers to over 300 000
followers on Tick Tock in pretty much a
week and this was crazy rapid growth and
I was super excited at the time because
Tick Tock was fun Tick Tock was new and
I was able to capitalize on it really
soon and blow up but I wasn't thinking
about the long-term implications of
blowing up in this style essentially I
was backing myself into a corner where
my followers only wanted to see this
dancing content and to be more specific
they wanted to see this hyper masculine
environment where dancing was present
they wanted to see me in my shoulder
paths they wanted to see me in the
locker room dancing with my teammates
but thinking long term that's not what I
do that's not what I do for a living
like I love dancing and I love having a
good time but also I'm not a college
football player for the rest of my life
in fact I was only a college football
player for about 12 more months after I
blew up on Tick Tock and so this wasn't
the best long-term plan and it wasn't
likely going to lead to very much
success unless I just wanted to keep
dancing now I could have leaned into
that space and become a dance influencer
and just kept making silly dancing
videos and I still have some friends on
Tick Tock who blew up in those early
stages for dancing videos and here they
are four years later still making
dancing videos that's awesome for them
more power to you but that's not me
that's not the kind of content that I
want to be creating and as you know
that's not my business my actual
business is helping people grow on
social media helping people make money
from the following that they've built
and so as I started to post more about
that kind of content my followers just
did not care again I had 300 000
followers but these new videos that I
was posting the videos that were
actually relating to my Niche the videos
that actually had to do with business
had to do with marketing Instagram tips
Tick Tock tips you know the the tips you
hear on build your tribe instead those
videos were getting 300 views 300 000
followers and getting 300 views and this
wasn't just like one or two bad videos
this was over the course of years in
fact for about two years straight I
stayed consistent on Tick Tock I was
posting high quality content oftentimes
I was posting very similar or even the
exact same content that I was posting on
Instagram and it was doing so poorly and
this was content that in many cases was
performing really well on Instagram or
even on YouTube shorts or on Pinterest
or on other platforms but when I shared
it on Tick Tock it never did well but it
makes sense that that content as quality
as it was as good as it was didn't
perform well because let's think about
how these algorithms work the
algorithm's job is to keep people
engaged to keep people active and paying
attention to the platform and so if the
algorithm is showing my followers
content my content that they're not
interested in and they're just quickly
scrolling by pressing dislike or just
skipping the video altogether well then
the algorithm is quickly learning that
this kind of content whatever Brock's
posting now his followers don't want to
see it they don't engage with it they
don't like it it's it's not good so we
should not show it to them so it's not
necessarily that there was a problem
with my content nor was there a problem
with the algorithm but rather a problem
with my audience imagine you were in a
stadium with 50 000 people who showed up
to see Taylor Swift and Kanye West
walked out onto the stage that's not who
they signed up for that's not who they
decided to follow that's not who they're
a fan of that's not the content they're
looking for and so of course the result
bolts aren't going to be very pleasant
but like I said for two years I fought
to try to bring this account back I
posted consistently I posted original
content I posted trending audios I tried
everything under the sun I did Duets I
did reaction videos I tried a bunch of
different styles I did talking head
videos I did lip sync videos and nothing
would work so finally in May of 2023 I
decided to bite the bullet and start a
new account before starting the new
account my hopes with that consistent
posting was that my followers would kind
of realign themselves the people who
were only interested in my dancing
videos and didn't want to follow me for
marketing or anything like that would
unfollow and the people who remained
engaged and who did have an interest in
the marketing would continue to follow
but of course with 300 000 followers and
99 of them being not interested they're
either not going to be shown the content
or they're going to unfollow when they
see it which means that even less people
are going to see it so it was kind of
like I was fighting an impossible fight
one that I was very unlikely to win and
you even if I was going to win that win
would result in hundreds of thousands of
people unfollowing me so I decided it
would be much faster and easier to just
start over and so far in the first few
weeks after starting over my engagement
has been much better my growth has
actually been positive rather than
negative and I've received a great
response if you want to follow me on
Tick Tock the link will be down in the
show notes but it's Brock 11 Johnson
same username that I am across every
platform but enough about my story let's
talk about if you should start over on
tick tock on Instagram on whatever
social media you decide to focus on
should you start over let's talk about
it I have six different criteria for you
and you can think of these as as boxes
to check off and let's say if you check
off at least three of these boxes if not
four five or six then you should
strongly consider starting over if you
only check off one or two then you might
want to consider just keep going rather
than starting over criteria number one
you have a large following let's say 50
000 or more of unengaged followers let's
say an engagement rate less than one
percent so you have a large audience but
a very very small engagement rate the
problem with this is that the amount of
followers that you would need to get
re-engaged is such a massive number and
your engagement rate is already so
critically low that the likelihood of
you reaching those unengaged followers
in order to re-engage them is very low
as well criteria number two you've gone
viral multiple times for videos that are
not relating to your Niche quick sidebar
and quick Pro tip that's why we
recommend not posting content outside of
your Niche if you're going to be posting
beginner rock climber tips then stick to
beginner rock climber tips with your
feed posts with your Tick Tock videos
with your YouTube channel if you post
beginner rock climber tips and then one
day you're like oh well I have this easy
life hack for a baking recipe and you
like just quickly film yourself doing
that and you post it and it goes viral
well now all of a sudden you have tens
of thousands if not hundreds of
thousands if not millions of viewers and
potentially follow followers who don't
care about the rock climbing they don't
care about what you actually post they
only followed you because they saw one
one hit wonder post about baking so if
you've gone viral multiple times for
things that are not related to your
Niche that might be a reason to start
over number three kind of piggybacks off
of number two which is that you have a
large amount of followers or even a
majority of your followers who are not
interested in your Niche this might be
for multiple reasons maybe you bought
followers in the past so you have you
know ten thousand followers but seven
thousand of those are not real people
they're robots that you purchased five
years ago before you knew better well
now seventy percent of your followers
they don't care about your Niche because
they don't care about anything because
they're robots you could also have a lot
of non-niche followers because maybe
you've changed niches maybe there has
been some life events that caused you to
Pivot your business maybe you have a lot
of followers from a viral post like we
just talked about but the more followers
you have that don't care about your
Niche translation the more people who
you're expecting to engage who are
disengaged the harder it's going to be
to grow to sell and to do anything
really in a positive sense with your
social media number four and this is a
big one is changing niches to a new
Niche a new category a new topic
whatever you want to call it that's not
adjacent or it's not overlapping to your
previous Niche so let's use that rock
climbing example if you're switching
from beginner rock climber tips to
intermediate rock climber tips no you
don't need to start a new account if
you're switching from let's say beginner
rock climber tips to mountain biking
tips there's a fair amount of crossover
there right and a lot of your followers
might be interested in both but also a
lot of them might not be interested so
that's kind of a gray area if you're
switching from something like beginner
rock climber tips to essential oils or
baking or home DIYs that's likely not
going to be a very adjacent or related
Niche the people who are into beginner
rock climbing in majority probably
aren't going to be interested in the new
Niche so in that case that might be
meeting the criteria of a new Niche that
is not related and thus a possible
reason to start over the fifth potential
reason to start a new account is if
you've had multiple Community guidelines
violations whether it was your fault or
not whether you got reported by someone
by accident or you actually
intentionally broke the guidelines of
Instagram or Tick Tock or whatever if
you've been flagged multiple times or if
you've had multiple posts taken down or
if you've received multiple violations
that might be a reason to start your new
account now I know that every social
network is going to tell you that once
that post is removed you're fine or once
the violation is taken off your fine or
after 30 days or 60 days or 90 days
you're fine but after you've had
repeated violations after you've broken
the guidelines multiple times it's been
shown that it's really really tough to
continue growing the algorithms are not
in your favor the odds are not in your
favor so if you've had a lot of content
taken down or that has violated
Community guidelines whether it's your
fault or not whether it was intentional
or not not that might be a reason to
start over and then the sixth and final
criteria for potentially starting a new
account and this is one that I think a
lot of people jump right to is over a
year of consistently posting high
quality content content that maybe even
does well or goes viral on other
platforms and it's not leading to any
growth or any new engagement now I'm
going to say at least a year and I'm
going to say if this is the only box
that you're checking off then you
definitely should not start a new
account for most people this is what
they look to they say hey I've been
posting consistently for two months I
haven't seen any growth should I start
over no but if it's been over a year if
it's been 12 months and you've been
consistently posting multiple times a
week so you've posted over a hundred
maybe 200 maybe even over 300 times in
that year and not one of those posts has
done well or has reached new people or
has led to a spike in growth or
engagement kind of put you back on the
right track well then it might be a good
time to start over but if it's just been
a few weeks or months of low engagement
that in and of itself is not enough to
Warrant starting a new account in my
opinion so let's say you've met four or
more of those criteria and you've
decided it's time to start a new account
it's time to do this scary thing and
start a new account what should you do
in what order here is the order that I
would recommend and this is the exact
order that I followed when starting my
new tick tock account first and foremost
obviously create a new account and then
switch usernames if you can now on
Instagram it's going to be a little bit
tougher because on Instagram when you
change a username that username stays
locked for about two weeks so let me
give you an example my username on
Instagram is Brock 11 Johnson if I
changed it to Brock 11 Johnson
underscore old account and then it would
essentially make Brock 11 Johnson
available right because now my username
is Brock 11 Johnson underscore old
account so Brock Levin Johnson should be
available right wrong actually Instagram
holds it for about 14 days in Lim bow so
that toefully protect against account
theft and hackers stealing usernames and
things like that so on Instagram it's a
little bit tougher to change your
usernames but on Tick Tock it becomes
available right away so what I did on
Tick Tock is I started a new account
then I went back to my existing account
that will add 300 000 followers and I
made it Brock 11 Johnson underscore old
I believe that's what I made the new
username thus freeing up Brock 11
Johnson then I went back to the new
account that I had just created and I
changed the username to be Brock 11
Johnson because that's what I wanted it
to be that's what people know me as
that's what people search for and so
keeping that uniformity just makes it
easier on people step two on your new
account upload and post all of your best
performing content from the past I don't
care if it's three months old or six
months old if it's still relevant and
you know it's your great your greatest
content you know it's going to do well
you know it performed well on other
platforms you know it should have
performed well on this platform then
post it and also make sure your bio is
up to date make sure your profile is
fully set up make sure you have a bio
that's well written make sure that you
you refer to some of our other build
your tribe episodes on how to craft a
well-written bio but essentially just
make sure it's a billboard that can
quickly and easily tell people why they
should follow you and what kind of
content you're going to be sharing then
step three is to announce the new
account on your old account and even
possibly on your other social networks
so let's say you're starting a new tick
tock account you could announce that
over on Instagram and Twitter and
Facebook and anywhere else that you
regularly post to tell people to go
follow this new account but only do that
once you already have some content
shared on the new account and once you
already have the bio and profile set up
if you don't have content share and you
don't have a bio or profile set up then
people are going to go to the new
account but there's going to be nothing
to interest them no reason to follow
it'd be like hey become a customer of my
new bakery that just opened and they
walk in and there's no pastries there's
nothing being made you don't even have
to sign up yet you just have a
storefront then step number four is to
stop posting on your old account I know
it's going to be tempting to keep
posting there especially if you already
have one followers there especially if
you've been using this account for many
years but stop posting on your old
account unless it's to direct people to
your new account in my opinion it's a
waste of time and it might even hurt you
in the algorithm if you're posting the
exact same content on both of the
accounts so instead the old account is
now just going to be a direction to the
new account you can even tag your new
account in the bio you could pin a post
at the top explaining why you decided to
start the new account and then all of
your content should be shared on the new
account speaking of sharing that new
content tip number five is to share new
content consistently valuable high
quality engaging captivating content on
your new account all the normal
strategies to increase views and
engagement all the normal strategies to
grow on social media start doing those
things on your new account and then my
sixth and final tip is don't actually
delete your old account I know at the
beginning of this video I said I deleted
my Tick Tock account but I think the
more accurate thing to say is that I
stopped using or I deactivated my old
Tick Tock account I don't recommend
deleting it because there's no point in
delay eating it it doesn't hurt you to
leave it open but what if you want to go
back to that account what if you want to
have a way to access those followers
what if you want a way to look at all of
that past content that you've shared
because maybe you don't have it saved to
your cloud or whatever instead of
deleting that old account just
deactivate it or log out or just stop
using it and again I know this is scary
I know starting fresh starting clean it
feels very intimidating for multiple
reasons maybe you've had your account
for many years maybe you have lots of
followers maybe you've shared tons of
content maybe you have some imposter
syndrome of hey if I start at zero
followers I'm gonna have no credibility
and no respect I hope that you can take
me as an example I hope I can lead by
example on this one I am a social media
coach I have a top 10 podcast that
you're listening to right now that I
co-host with my mom I have over 600 000
followers on Instagram but now I have
zero on Tick Tock or I should say I have
a couple hundred on Tick Tock and so it
was scary for me to stop using that Tick
Tock account because I used to be able
to say that if I combined my Instagram
and my Tick Tock followers I had over a
million followers but that's not true
anymore now if you combine them I have a
little bit more than I have on just
Instagram and so I hope that you can
take me in as an example I hope that if
you can use me for some inspiration you
do so because even though it is scary in
the long term it's going to lead to
better results more growth more sales
and a better business so I know it's
scary but if you meet at least four of
those criteria I want you to consider
starting over and if you do make sure to
follow the steps that I just listed
thank you so much for watching or
listening today don't forget to give a
thumbs up make sure to hit subscribe for
more content just like this and I'll
make sure to keep you updated on all the
latest trends and growth tips and I'll
keep you updated on what's going on with
my new tick tock account I hope you
follow me over there again it's Brock 11
Johnson on Tick Tock thank you so much
for listening or watching today and as
always happy networking
[Music]
thank you